
This is an open source project and lives from people having ideas,
testing variants and making contributions. So incorporating
changes, and likely many of them, is a central point for success.

Also, this set of electronics is used by many people, and has to
work reliably. Accordingly, please make as sure as possible to not
introduce any regessions. Regressions likely hit other people as well,
and they won't cheer you for that.

A few guidelines will help to maintain best quality:

- Make changes as small as possible. Change the value of a resistor
  or of a group of similar resistors, but don't introduce e.g.
  new connectors at the same time. Use a seperate commit for that
  connector. The smaller the changes, the easier it is to verify
  changes by visual inspection. Also it eases hunting down the bug
  in case (*sigh*) something went wrong, later.

  Issueing multiple commits isn't a problem at all. Focussing at one
  change at a time also avoids slipped in unwanted changes. You get it.

- Try to keep the style of your precedessors. Everybody has a
  different style, and there's no point in discussing this. My
  philosopher said that.

Before doing a commit or sending files for committing, do the
following steps:

- If you changed the schematic, update the PCB as well. This is
  neccessary even if you didn't anything layout-related.

- Do an "optimize rats nest" to check for any error. If there is
  any, don't commit.

- Ask the Design Rule Checker (DRC). Any DRC complaints -> no commit.

- For bonus points, switch to the GND-sldr layer after the
  "it's done!"-save, lay a ground plane all over the board and
  check wether all non-GND tracks are clear of this plane. While
  there is no ground plane by default, some people add them just
  before manufacturing, and you help the with that.

  DON'T save that layout with the ground plane.
  Use Menu -> File -> Revert instead.

- Last not least: make sure not to push unrelated files into the
  repository. Unrelated is everything which can be re-created easily
  from the other files. There are rules set up to only accept the
  essential files, but these sometimes fail. A repository isn't a
  temporary storage or dumpster, so please take care.


Traumflug, January 2011

